

Messiha2013 - combined glycolysis and pentose phosphate pathway model

[BIOMD0000000502](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000502) and
[MODEL1303260018](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1303260018) are
combined to examine the response to oxidative stress.

This model is described in the article:

[Enzyme characterisation and kinetic modelling of pentose phosphate pathway in
yeast.](http://identifiers.org/doi/10.7287/peerj.preprints.146v2)

Hanan L. Messiha, Edward Kent, Naglis Malys, Kathleen M. Carroll, Pedro
Mendes, Kieran Smallbone

PeerJ PrePrints 1:e146v2

Abstract:

We present the quantification and kinetic characterisation of the enzymes of
the pentose phosphate pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The data are
combined into a mathematical model that describes the dynamics of this system
and allows for the predicting changes in metabolite concentrations and fluxes
in response to perturbations. We use the model to study the response of yeast
to a glucose pulse. We then combine the model with an existing glycolysis one
to study the effect of oxidative stress on carbohydrate metabolism. The
combination of these two models was made possible by the standardized enzyme
kinetic experiments carried out in both studies. This work demonstrates the
feasibility of constructing larger network models by merging smaller pathway
models.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000503](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000503) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

